README.rst, before:

Workshop on the use of data from the SciELO database
====================================================

This is the repository of the analyses performed for the
workshop on the use of data from the SciELO database
that had been presented during the *SciELO 20 Years*.

The analyses that had been performed are in the following notebooks:

.. list-table::

  * - **#**
    - **Title**
    - **Language**
    - **Links**
  * - 1
    - Introduction to Pandas with ArticleMeta
    - Python
    - `Notebook <articlemeta_pandas.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/01_articlemeta_pandas.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/01_articlemeta_pandas.html>`_
  * - 2
    - Downloading the reports/spreadsheets from SciELO Analytics
    - Python
    - `Notebook <download_reports.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/02_download_reports.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/02_download_reports.html>`_
  * - 3
    - Simplifying the column names (CSV header)
    - Python
    - `Notebook <simplify_header.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/03_simplify_header.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/03_simplify_header.html>`_
  * - 4
    - Does the Network reports have everything
      from the remaining reports?
    - Python
    - `Notebook <network_has_everything.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/04_network_has_everything.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/04_network_has_everything.html>`_
  * - 5
    - Cleaning / Normalizing the ISSN
    - Python
    - `Notebook <clean_issn.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/05_clean_issn.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/05_clean_issn.html>`_
  * - 6
    - Number of indexed/deindexed/active journals in the SciELO network
    - Python
    - `Notebook <active_journals.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/06_active_journals.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/06_active_journals.html>`_
  * - 7
    - Deindexing reason in the SciELO Brazil collection
    - Python
    - `Notebook <deindex_reason.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/07_deindex_reason.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/07_deindex_reason.html>`_
  * - 8
    - Collecting the daily access in the SciELO Brazil collection
    - Python
    - `Notebook <daily_access.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/08_daily_access.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/08_daily_access.html>`_
  * - 9
    - Cleaning / Normalizing the thematic area
    - Python
    - `Notebook <clean_area.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/09_clean_area.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/09_clean_area.html>`_
  * - 10
    - Hirsch indices from Google Scholar
    - Python
    - `Notebook <google_scholar_h5.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/10_google_scholar_h5.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/10_google_scholar_h5.html>`_
  * - 11
    - FCR in Dimensions
    - Python
    - `Notebook <dimensions_fcr.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/11_dimensions_fcr.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/11_dimensions_fcr.html>`_
  * - 12
    - Citations in the SciELO Citation Index
    - Python
    - `Notebook <scielo_ci_citations.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/12_scielo_ci_citations.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/12_scielo_ci_citations.html>`_
  * - 13
    - Scopus 2017 - CiteScore, SNIP and SJR
    - Python
    - `Notebook <scopus2017.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/13_scopus2017.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/13_scopus2017.html>`_
  * - 14
    - Analyzing the SCImago Journal Rank in 2017
    - Python
    - `Notebook <scimago2017.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/14_scimago2017.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/14_scimago2017.html>`_
  * -
    - Proportion of Brazil as the affiliation of documents in SciELO Brazil
    - R
    - `Notebook <affiliation_br.Rmd>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/affiliation_br.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/affiliation_br.html>`_
  * - 15
    - Languages of research articles in SciELO Brazil
    - Python
    - `Notebook <articles_languages.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/15_articles_languages.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/15_articles_languages.html>`_

Other materials in this repository include:

.. list-table::

  * - **Description**
    - **Language**
    - **Links**
  * - Presentation plan in Brazilian Portuguese
    - Markdown
    - `Source <presentation_plan_ptbr.md>`_
  * - Abstract and keywords metadata page
    - Markdown
    - `Source <metadata.md>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/metadata.pdf>`_
  * - Report slides source code
    - LaTeX
    - `Source <slides.tex>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/slides.pdf>`_

Every analysis based on the
`SciELO Analytics reports <https://analytics.scielo.org/w/reports>`_
uses the 2018-09-14 snapshot version of the ZIP packages.

Some links shown/open during the workshop presentation:

.. list-table::

  * - Jupyter Notebook tutorial (in Brazilian Portuguese):
    - `<https://github.com/danilobellini/notebooks/blob/master/2017-08-21_Jupyter/Mini-Curso_Jupyter.ipynb>`_
  * - ArticleMeta JSON API:
    - `<http://articlemeta.scielo.org/api/v1/collection/identifiers/>`_
  * - SciELO Analytics reports web page:
    - `<https://analytics.scielo.org/w/reports>`_
  * - Learn pandas in [way more time than] 10 minutes:
    - `<https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/10min.html>`_
  * - CRAN and the R repositories:
    - `<https://cran.r-project.org>`_
  * - Cheat sheets for R / R Studio / R Markdown:
    - `<https://www.rstudio.com/resources/cheatsheets>`_
  * - Australian and New Zealand Standard Research Classification
      (ANZSRC),
      the Fields of Research used by Dimensions' FCR:
    - `<http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/0/4AE1B46AE2048A28CA25741800044242>`_
  * - Dimensions:
    - `<https://app.dimensions.ai>`_
  * - SciELO Ratchet JSON API example:
    - `<http://ratchet.scielo.org/api/v1/journals/0074-0276/>`_
  * - SciELO Ratchet API documentation:
    - `<http://docs.scielo.org/projects/ratchet/en/latest/api.html>`_
  * - Data dictionary for the SciELO model,
      including the ISIS numbering
      as they appear in the ArticleMeta data (in Brazilian Portuguese):
    - `<https://docplayer.com.br/939603-Bireme-opas-oms-centro-latino-americano-e-do-caribe-de-informacao-em-ciencias-da-saude-metodologia-scielo-dicionario-de-dados-do-modelo-scielo.html>`_
  * - SciELO Citation Index Field Tags:
    - `<https://images.webofknowledge.com/images/help/SCIELO/hs_selo_fieldtags.html>`_
  * - SciELO main page:
    - `<http://www.scielo.org/php/index.php>`_
  * - Matplotlib colormap reference:
    - `<https://matplotlib.org/examples/color/colormaps_reference.html>`_
  * - Pandas documentation:
    - `<https://pandas.pydata.org/>`_
  * - Seaborn documentation:
    - `<https://seaborn.pydata.org/>`_
  * - Seaborn tutorial:
    - `<https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial.html>`_

Commit message:

Add links to the old reports from SciELO Analytics
These are the reports used in the notebooks

The 2018-06-10 version used to be the one analyzed in the notebooks,
but it had been replaced when the new version was published, so it's
worth keeping both in order to get a stricter reproducibility in most
of what have been written in this repository

README.rst, after:

Workshop on the use of data from the SciELO database
====================================================

This is the repository of the analyses performed for the
workshop on the use of data from the SciELO database
that had been presented during the *SciELO 20 Years*.

The analyses that had been performed are in the following notebooks:

.. list-table::

  * - **#**
    - **Title**
    - **Language**
    - **Links**
  * - 1
    - Introduction to Pandas with ArticleMeta
    - Python
    - `Notebook <articlemeta_pandas.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/01_articlemeta_pandas.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/01_articlemeta_pandas.html>`_
  * - 2
    - Downloading the reports/spreadsheets from SciELO Analytics
    - Python
    - `Notebook <download_reports.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/02_download_reports.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/02_download_reports.html>`_
  * - 3
    - Simplifying the column names (CSV header)
    - Python
    - `Notebook <simplify_header.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/03_simplify_header.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/03_simplify_header.html>`_
  * - 4
    - Does the Network reports have everything
      from the remaining reports?
    - Python
    - `Notebook <network_has_everything.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/04_network_has_everything.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/04_network_has_everything.html>`_
  * - 5
    - Cleaning / Normalizing the ISSN
    - Python
    - `Notebook <clean_issn.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/05_clean_issn.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/05_clean_issn.html>`_
  * - 6
    - Number of indexed/deindexed/active journals in the SciELO network
    - Python
    - `Notebook <active_journals.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/06_active_journals.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/06_active_journals.html>`_
  * - 7
    - Deindexing reason in the SciELO Brazil collection
    - Python
    - `Notebook <deindex_reason.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/07_deindex_reason.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/07_deindex_reason.html>`_
  * - 8
    - Collecting the daily access in the SciELO Brazil collection
    - Python
    - `Notebook <daily_access.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/08_daily_access.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/08_daily_access.html>`_
  * - 9
    - Cleaning / Normalizing the thematic area
    - Python
    - `Notebook <clean_area.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/09_clean_area.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/09_clean_area.html>`_
  * - 10
    - Hirsch indices from Google Scholar
    - Python
    - `Notebook <google_scholar_h5.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/10_google_scholar_h5.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/10_google_scholar_h5.html>`_
  * - 11
    - FCR in Dimensions
    - Python
    - `Notebook <dimensions_fcr.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/11_dimensions_fcr.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/11_dimensions_fcr.html>`_
  * - 12
    - Citations in the SciELO Citation Index
    - Python
    - `Notebook <scielo_ci_citations.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/12_scielo_ci_citations.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/12_scielo_ci_citations.html>`_
  * - 13
    - Scopus 2017 - CiteScore, SNIP and SJR
    - Python
    - `Notebook <scopus2017.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/13_scopus2017.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/13_scopus2017.html>`_
  * - 14
    - Analyzing the SCImago Journal Rank in 2017
    - Python
    - `Notebook <scimago2017.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/14_scimago2017.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/14_scimago2017.html>`_
  * -
    - Proportion of Brazil as the affiliation of documents in SciELO Brazil
    - R
    - `Notebook <affiliation_br.Rmd>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/affiliation_br.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/affiliation_br.html>`_
  * - 15
    - Languages of research articles in SciELO Brazil
    - Python
    - `Notebook <articles_languages.ipynb>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/15_articles_languages.pdf>`_ /
      `HTML <http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/scieloorg/scielo20gt6/blob/master/html/15_articles_languages.html>`_

Other materials in this repository include:

.. list-table::

  * - **Description**
    - **Language**
    - **Links**
  * - Presentation plan in Brazilian Portuguese
    - Markdown
    - `Source <presentation_plan_ptbr.md>`_
  * - Abstract and keywords metadata page
    - Markdown
    - `Source <metadata.md>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/metadata.pdf>`_
  * - Report slides source code
    - LaTeX
    - `Source <slides.tex>`_ /
      `PDF <pdf/slides.pdf>`_

Every analysis based on the
`SciELO Analytics reports <https://analytics.scielo.org/w/reports>`_
uses the 2018-09-14 snapshot version of the ZIP packages.
Links to stored copies of all these reports, by date:

* `2018-06-10 <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1-FMfu8e83uAjkAQUK8xhtm2L5hn10m51>`_
* `2018-09-14 <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1sd2R42Uq27MaA6iBGQgbVpTHjgsFNzEN>`_

Some links shown/open during the workshop presentation:

.. list-table::

  * - Jupyter Notebook tutorial (in Brazilian Portuguese):
    - `<https://github.com/danilobellini/notebooks/blob/master/2017-08-21_Jupyter/Mini-Curso_Jupyter.ipynb>`_
  * - ArticleMeta JSON API:
    - `<http://articlemeta.scielo.org/api/v1/collection/identifiers/>`_
  * - SciELO Analytics reports web page:
    - `<https://analytics.scielo.org/w/reports>`_
  * - Learn pandas in [way more time than] 10 minutes:
    - `<https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/10min.html>`_
  * - CRAN and the R repositories:
    - `<https://cran.r-project.org>`_
  * - Cheat sheets for R / R Studio / R Markdown:
    - `<https://www.rstudio.com/resources/cheatsheets>`_
  * - Australian and New Zealand Standard Research Classification
      (ANZSRC),
      the Fields of Research used by Dimensions' FCR:
    - `<http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/0/4AE1B46AE2048A28CA25741800044242>`_
  * - Dimensions:
    - `<https://app.dimensions.ai>`_
  * - SciELO Ratchet JSON API example:
    - `<http://ratchet.scielo.org/api/v1/journals/0074-0276/>`_
  * - SciELO Ratchet API documentation:
    - `<http://docs.scielo.org/projects/ratchet/en/latest/api.html>`_
  * - Data dictionary for the SciELO model,
      including the ISIS numbering
      as they appear in the ArticleMeta data (in Brazilian Portuguese):
    - `<https://docplayer.com.br/939603-Bireme-opas-oms-centro-latino-americano-e-do-caribe-de-informacao-em-ciencias-da-saude-metodologia-scielo-dicionario-de-dados-do-modelo-scielo.html>`_
  * - SciELO Citation Index Field Tags:
    - `<https://images.webofknowledge.com/images/help/SCIELO/hs_selo_fieldtags.html>`_
  * - SciELO main page:
    - `<http://www.scielo.org/php/index.php>`_
  * - Matplotlib colormap reference:
    - `<https://matplotlib.org/examples/color/colormaps_reference.html>`_
  * - Pandas documentation:
    - `<https://pandas.pydata.org/>`_
  * - Seaborn documentation:
    - `<https://seaborn.pydata.org/>`_
  * - Seaborn tutorial:
    - `<https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial.html>`_
